# Project 2: Monte Carlo simulation of polymers

Authors: Daniel van Bemmelen, Mees Wortelboer

This repository contains a Monte Carlo code for simulating polymers as free or self-avoiding random walks on a square lattice in 2 dimensions. It uses the Rosenbluth method and optionally the pruned and enriched rosenbluth method (PERM) to grow polymers and computes weighted average of the the radius of gyration and end-to-end distance of a sample of inputted size and uses an analytical approximation formula or the bootstrapping method for computing the average. For a detailed description of all of these terms the authors refer the reader to the [Final_Report](Final_Report.pdf) found in the repository.

To run simulations, users input the wanted parameters in Polymer_simulation/main.py and run `python main.py` in the terminal. L_max is the wanted size of the polymers, N is the number of polymers, n_bootstrap_samples is the number of bootstrapping samples and c_plus is used in the PERM. When n_bootstrap_samples is set to 0, the analytical approximation method is used for error computation. When c_plus is set to 0, PERM is not implemented. 

Main calls on functions in Polymer_simulation/execution.py to generate objects of the Polymer class, found in Polymer_simulation/class_polymer.py, to create the sample. The function `execution.make_dir()` creates the folder used for the storage of the simulation data. The function `execution.generation()` creates a sample of self-avoiding random walks whereas the function `execution.generate_free()` creates a sample of free random walks. The function `execution.observables()` computes all the observables and saves them as separate .npy files in the folder with the specified name within the folder Polymer Simulation Data. It is important that the storage folder is created before generating the sample and computing the observables. The user finds 6 separate simulations defined in main as the authors left it. Looking at these should provide insight in the possibilities for the user.

To visualise the data, users input the name of their simulation in the `main()` function of `Polymer_simulation.visualisation.py` and run `python visualisation.py` in the terminal. The function data_reader() opens the .npy files and saves them to numpy arrays which can be used for plotting. The `title` variables can be altered to match the simulations run by the user.